Amor Omnia Vincit (Love conquers all - Virgil, Eclogues X)
Vivamus, Moriendum Est. (Let us live, since we must die.)
Alea Iacta Est. (The die is cast.)
Flectere si nequeo superos, Acheronta movebo (If I can not bend the will of Heaven, I shall move Hell. - Virgil)
Condemnant quo non intellegunt. (They condemn that which they do not understand.)
Acceptissima semper munera sunt, auctor quae pretiosa facit. (Those gifts are always the most acceptable which our love for the donor makes precious.)
Oderint dum metuant (Let them hate so long as they fear. - Caligula)
Imperium in imperio. (An empire within an empire.)
 Audentes fortuna iuvat. (Fortune favors the bold. - Virgil)
 Divitae bonum non sunt (Material wealth is not the one good. - Seneca)
 Non fortuna homines aestimabo, sed moribus (I do not estimate the men for their fortune, but for their habits. - Seneca)
Pars magna bonitatis est velle fieri bonum (Much of goodness consists in wanting to be good. - Seneca)
Hic manebimus optime! ("here we will stay, most excellently! - Livius)
Homo sum humani a me nihil alienum puto (I am a human being, so nothing human is strange to me. - Terentius)
Animus risu novatur (The spirit is refreshed with laughter. - Cicero)
Amicus certus in re incerta cernitur (One's friends are known in the hour of need. - Ennius)
Caeca invidia est (Envy is blind. - Livius)
Cogito ergo sum (I think, therefore I am. - Descartes)
Aequam servare mentem (Keep the mind calm. - Horace)
Crudelius est quam mori semper timere mortem (It is more cruel to always fear death than to die. - Seneca)
Mea mihi conscientia pluris est quam omnium sermo (My conscience is more to me than what the world says. - Cicero)
Nimium ne crede colori (Trust not too much to looks. - Virgil)
Tempus fugit (Time flies. - Virgil)
Timendi causa est nescire (Ignorance is the cause of fear. - Seneca)
Tot homines, quot sententiae (So many men, so many opinions. - Terence)
Copia ciborum, subtilitas impeditur (The abundance of food hampers intelligence. - Seneca)
Veritas numquam perit (Truth never dies. - Seneca)
Nemo malus felix (No evil is happy. - Juvenalis)
Veni, vidi, vici (I came, I saw, I conquered. - Caesar)
Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori (It is sweet and fitting to die for your country. - Horace)
Ignis aurum proat, miseria fortes viros (Fire provides proof of gold; misery, proof of strong men. - Ovid)
Labor omnia vincit (Hard work conquers all. - Virgil)
Qui totum vult totum perdit (He who wants everything loses everything – attributed to Seneca)
Vive memor leti (Live remembering death. - Flaccus)
Quam bene vivas refert, non quam diu (It is how well you live that matters, not how long. - Seneca)
Noli foras ire, in teipsum reddi; in interiore homine habitat veritas (Don't lose yourself, return to you, inside of you lives the truth. - Augustine)
 Si vis amari, ama (If you wish to be loved, love. - Augustine)
Vestis virum reddit (The clothes make the man. - Quintilia)
Amor animi arbitrio sumitur, non ponitur (We choose to love, we do not choose to cease loving. - Syrus)
Cui amat periculum in illo peribit (Whoever loves danger will perish by it. - Vulgate-Ecclesiastiscus or Sirach III)
Odi et amo (I love and hate - Catullus)
Serva me servabo te (Save me and I'll save you. - Petronius)
Aut viam inveniam aut faciam (I will find the way, or I will make one. - Anibal)
Nemo mortalium omnibus horis sapit (No mortal is wise at all times. - Pliny)
Fortis est non pertubaris in rebus asperis (The strong do not falter in adversity. - Cicero)
Omne quod movetur ab alio movetur (Everything that moves is moved by something else. - Aquinas)
Amicitiae nostrae memoriam spero sempiternam fore (I hope that memory of our friendship will be everlasting. - Cicero)
Multi famam, conscientiam, pauci verentur (Many fear their reputation, few their conscience. - Pliny)
Optimum est pati quod emendare non possis. (It is best to endure what you cannot change. - Seneca)
Leve fit, quod bene fertur, onus (The load is lite, if you know how to support it. - Ovid)
Divide et impera (Divide and conquered. - Caesar)
Fata volentem ducunt, nolentem trahunt (Fate leads the willing, and drags the unwilling. - Seneca)
Consuetudinis magna vis est (Old habits die hard. - Cicero)
Fere libenter homines, id quod volunt, credunt. (People almost always willingly believe what you want. - Caesar)
Imperare sibi maximum imperium est (To rule yourself is the ultimate power. - Seneca)
Perfer et obdura; dolor hic tibi proderit olim (Be patient and tough, this pain will serve you one day. - Ovid)
Omnis ars naturae imitatio est (All art is but an imitation of nature. - Seneca)
Exigo a me non ut optimis par sim sed ut malis melior (I require myself not to be equal to the best, but to be better than the bad. - Seneca)
Mens sana in corpore sano (A sound mind in a sound body. - Juvenal)
Ab alio expectes alteri quod feceris (Expect to receive such treatment as you have given. - Syrus)
 Aequam memento rebus in arduis servare mentem (In adversity, remember to keep an even mind. - Horace)
Sedit qui timuit ne non succederet (He who feared that he would not succeed sat still. - Horace)
Forsan et haec olim meminisse iuvabit (Perhaps, one day, remembering even these things will bring pleasure. - Virgil)
Perfer et obdura, dolor hic tibi proderit olim (Be strong and endure, someday this pain will be useful to you. - Ovid)
Dulce bellum inexpertis (War is sweet to the inexperienced. - Erasmus)
Multo autem ad rem magis pertinet quallis tibi vide aris quam allis (It is much more important what you think of yourself, than what others think of you. - Seneca)
Oportet esse ut vivas, non vivere ut edas (Should eat to live, not live to eat. - Cicero)
Nunc est bibendum (Now we drink. - Horace)
Sapere aude (Dare to be wise - Horace)
Vitiis nemo sine nascitur (No one is born without faults. - Horace)
Nescit vox miss reverti (The words can not return. - Horace)
Aegroto dum anima est, spes esse dicitur (As long as there is life there is hope for the ill one, it is said. - Cicero)
Saepe ne utile quidem est scire quid futurum sit (Often it is not even advantageous to know what will be - Cicero)
Ubi concordia, ibi victoria (Where there is unity, there is the victory. - Syrus)
Fallaces sunt rerum species (The appearances of things are deceptive. - Seneca)
Et tu, Brute? (And you, Brutus?" last words of Caesar after being murdered by his friend; used today to convey utter betrayal)
Quam se ipse amans, sine rivale (By loving yourself, with no rival. - Cicero)
Ferae pericula quae vident fugiunt (The beasts flee the dangers they see. - Seneca)
Vae victis (Woe to the conquered. - Brennus)
Homo vitae commodatus non donatus est (Man's life is lent, not given - Syrus)
Vasa vana plurimum sonant (Empty pots make the most noise.)
Historia magistra vitae et testis temporum (History is the teacher and witness of times)
Exitus Acta Probat. (The result justifies the deed.)
Ad astra per aspera. (Through adversity to the stars)
scientia ipsa potentia est (Knowledge itself is power)
Faber est suae quisque fortunae. (Every man is the artisan of his own fortune.)
Non ducor duco. (I am not led; I lead.)
pecunia, si uti scis, ancilla est; si nescis, domina (If you know how to use money, money is your slave; if you don't, money is your master)
In absentia lucis, Tenebrae vincunt. (In the absence of light, darkness prevails.)
Dum inter homines sumus, colamus humanitatem. (As long as we are among humans, let us be humane.)
Disce quasi semper victurus vive quasi cras moriturus (Learn as if you're always going to live; live as if tomorrow you're going to die)
Ad turpia virum bonum nulla spes invitat. (No expectation can allure a good man to the commission of evil.)
Nullum magnum ingenium sine mixture dementia fuit. (There has been no great wisdom without an element of madness.)
Ut avertam oculos meos ad intendum (I close my eyes in order to see)
Vir sapit qui pauca loquitur (That man is wise who talks little)
Respice, adspice, prospice (Examine the past, examine the present, examine the future)
Qui tacet consentire (Who is silent gives consent)
Pessimum genus inimicorum laudantes (Flatterers are the worst type of enemies)
Parva leves capiunt animas (Small things occupy light minds)
Mendacem memorem esse oportet (It is fitting that a liar should be a man of good memory)
Vox et praeterea nihil (A voice and nothing more.)
Scientia ac labore (Knowledge through hard work)
Vino vendibili hedera non opus est (A popular wine needs no ivy.)
Veritas liberabit (The truth will make you free.)
Verba volant, scripta manent (Spoken words fly away, written words remain.)
Barba tenus sapientes (is literally said to be "wise as far as his beard")
Barba non facit philosophum ("a beard does not make a philosopher,")
Barba crescit caput nescit (meaning "the beard grows, but the head doesn’t grow wiser.)
Corvus oculum corvi non eruit (meaning "a crow will not pull out the eye of another crow.)
Experientia docet (Experience teaches.)
Felicitas multos habet amicos (Prosperity has many friends.)
Nobilitat stultum vestis honesta virum (Good clothes make a stupid man look noble.)
Quanti est sapere (How desirable is wisdom or knowledge.)
Saepe malum petitur, saepe bonum fugitur (Evil is often sought, good is often shunned.)
Salva veritate (With truth preserved.)
Sapiens nihil affirmat quod non probat (A wise man states as true nothing he does not prove - do not swear to anything you do not know firsthand).
Suum cuique (To each his own.)
Sumus quod sumus (We are what we are)
Actio personalis moritur cum persona (Dead men do not sue.)
Doscendo discimus (By teaching, we learn)
Memores acti prudentes futuri (Mindful of what has been done, aware of what will be)
Aut tace aut loquere meliora silentio (Be quiet or say something better than silence)
Omnes volumnus plus. Et plus, et plus et plurimus (We all want more. And more, and more and much more.)
Posside sapientiam, quia auro melior est (Possessing wisdom is better than owning gold)
An dives sit omnes quærunt, nemo an bonus (Every one inquires if he is rich; no one asks if he is good.)
A solis ortu usque ad occasum (From where the sun rises to where it sets.)
Difficilius est sarcire concordiam quam rumpere (It is more difficult to restore harmony than sow dissension.)
Etiam sanato vulnere cicatrix manet (Though the wound is healed, a scar remains.)
Errare humanum est (It is human to err.)
Laudari a viro laudato maxima est laus (To be commended by a man of high repute is the greatest possible praise.)
Et ipsa scientia potestas est (And knowledge itself, is power)
Non qui parum habet, sed qui plus cupit, pauper est (It is not the man who has too little, but the man who craves more, that is poor.)
Malum sed mulliere, sed necessarium malum (Women are evil, a necessary evil)
Multa hospicia, nullas amicitias (Many acquaintances, no friends)
Hominibus plenum, amicis vacuum (Crowded with men, yet bare of friends.)
Desideratum (A thing desired, but regretfully wanting)
Bellum se ipsum alet (War feeds itself.)
Eram quod es, eris quod sum (I was what you are, you will be what I am - engraved in gravestones)
Factis ut credam facis (No need of words, trust deeds.)
De hoc multi multa, omnes aliquid, nemo satis (Of this many have said many things, all something, no one enough.)
Qualis pater, talis filius (As is the father, so is the son;)
Viris fortibus non opus est moenibus (To brave men, walls are unnecessary.)
Accensa domo proximi, tua quoque periclitatur. (When the house of your neighbour is in flames, your own is in danger.)
Ars Longa, Vita Brevis. (Art is long, life is short.)
ex asperis (sweeter after difficulties)
Omnes Una Manet Nox. (One night awaits everyone.)
Nil Desperandum. (Never despair!)
incendit vires (Manhood rouses one's strength.)
Non Omnia Possumus Omnes. (We can’t all of us do everything.)
Permitte Divis Cetera. (Leave all else to the gods.)
quo communius eo peius (The more common an evil is, the worse it is.)
Per angusta ad augusta (Through difficulties to honors)
Igne natura renovatur integra (Through fire, nature is reborn whole.)
Damnant quod non intelligunt (They condemn what they do not understand.)
humanum est, perseverare diabolicum (To err is human, to persist in it, is diabolial.)
Nunquam non paratus (Never unprepared; always ready.)
Sine labore non erit panis in ore (Without work there will not be any bread in your mouth.)
obstat (Nothing stands in the way)
Non progredi est regredi (To not go forward is to go backward)
Non sum qualis eram (I am not such as I was; "I am not the kind of person I once was")
nec mergitur (It is tossed by the waves but it does not sink)
vincere aut mori (Either to conquer or die.)
aut discede (Learn or leave.)
pati (Learn to endure.)
facta verbis difficiliora (Works are harder than words)
servi sumus ut liberi esse possimus (We are slaves of the laws in order that we may be free.)
me quod eritque fuitque estque patet. (That which is and was and will be lies open through me.)
Volo, non valeo (I am willing but unable.)
Semper ad meliora (Always towards better things)
at fidelis (bold but faithful)
et emergo (I struggle and emerge)
ad altitudinem (Reach for the heights)
est bellum (This is war)
maneo (I will die unvanquished)
ego nec sine te nec tecum vivere possum (So I can’t live either without you or with you.)
pro omnibus, omnes pro uno (One for all, all for one.)
ultima linea rerum est (Death is the ultimate limit.)
mihi, cras tibi (It is my lot today, yours tomorrow)
Semper Fidelis (Always faithful)
Semper Idem. (Always the same.)
Et in Arcadia ego. (Even in Arcadia, here I am.)
Propriis Volat (She flies with her own wings)
In umbra, igitur, pugnabimus. (Then we will fight in the shade.)
Vir prudens non contra ventum mingit. (A wise man does not pee against the wind.)
In vino veritas (There is truth in wine)
Faber est quisque fortunae suae. (Each man is the maker of his own fortune.)
Male Parta Male Dilabuntur. (What has been wrongly gained is wrongly lost.)
Utile dulci (The useful with the agreeable)
Acta est Fabula, Plaudite! (The play is over, applaud!)
Quis, Quid, Ubi, Quibus Auxiliis, Cur, Quomodo, Quando? (Who, what, where, with what, why, how, when?)
Caveat Emptor (Let the buyer beware)
Factum fieri infectum non potest. (It is impossible for a deed to be undone.)
Lupus non timet canem latrantem. (A wolf is not afraid of a barking dog.)
Ceteris paribus (All other things being equal.)
Amore et melle et felle es fecundissimus. (Love is rich with honey and venom.)
Quid infantes sumus. (What are we, babies?)
Sine qua non (An absolutely necessary component or ingredient.)
Fiat Lux. (Let there be light.)
Vade Retro Me, Satana. (Get off my back, Satan.)
Carpe vinum (Seize the wine)
Hannibal ad portas. (Hannibal is at the gates.)
Dulce periculum. (Danger is sweet.)
Mea culpa (My apology; my error)
Ad infinitum (On toward infinity.)
Eo Ipso (By this act (or fact).)
In Camera (In secret.)
Ne Plus Ultra (Nothing more beyond)
Potest Solum Unum (There can be only one.)
Brutum fulmen (an empty threat)
Sub Rosa (Under the rose. Means "private or secret".)
Nullus agenti dies longus est (No day is long for the busy)
Cui bono? (who benefits?)
Vox nihili (The voice of nothing)
Ad finem (To the end; at or near the end.)
Amor nummi (Love of money.) phrase
Arcanum arcanorum (Secret of secrets.)
Ars amandi (The art of loving.)
Deo volente (God willing.)
Die dulci fruere (Have a nice day.)
Dixi (I have spoken.)
Et nunc et semper (Now and forever)
Hic jacet. (Here lies.)
Lege atque lacrima (Read 'em and weep.)
Magister mundi sum! (I am the master of the universe!)
Non plus ultra! (Nothing above that!)
Novus homo (A new man)
Felix culpa (happy mistake)
Simul et dictum et factum (At the same time both said and done.)
Sine die (Unknown period of time.)
Pro bono (publico) (For the public good)
Tabula rasa (Blank  slate)
sic et non (Yes and no)
Ab imo pectore (From the bottom of the chest - from the bottom of the heart).
Ab intra - (From within.)
Totum dependeat (Let it all hang out.)
Fac ut vivas (Get a life.)
Ad honorem (For honor)
Amor patriae (Love of one's country : patriotism)
Dictum factum (What is said is done)
Ex animo (From the heart – "sincerely")
Semper fortis (Always brave)
Viriliter agite (Act in a manly way)
esse (In existence)
bibat, aut abeat (Either drink or go.)
abrupto (Without preparation.)
dignitatem (Beneath one's dignity.)
sit (Be it unsaid.)
Non sequiter (It does not follow)
unum (Out of many, one)
ratio (The last resort)
altius, fortius (Faster, higher, stronger)
hodie (Live today.)
annis (As time goes by.)
et honorare (Love and honor)
astra (To the stars)
aut numquam (Now or never)
Bono malum superate (Overcome evil with good)
temporis homo (A man of all times)
Amor (Love)
Fortis (Strength)
Virtus (Power)
Bellator (Warrior)
Vita (Life)
Sapiencia (Wisdom)
Libertas (Freedom)
Virtute et armis (By virtue and arms  or "by manhood and weapons")
Creo quia absurdum est. (I believe because it is absurd.)
Vitam Impendere Vero. (Dedicate your life to truth.)
Aquila non capit muscas. (An eagle does not catch [does not bother with] flies.)
Panem et circenses. (Bread and circuses.)
Caesar non supra grammaticos. (The Emperor is not above the grammarians.)
Viriliter agite estote fortes (Quit ye like men, be strong)
Docendo disco, scribendo cogito. (I learn by teaching, think by writing.)
Corruptissima republica plurimae leges. (The more numerous the laws, the more corrupt the state.)
Sustinere est difficilius quam aggredi (To endure is harder to attack)
Omnium Rerum Principia Parva Sunt. (The beginnings of all things are small.)
Fere libenter homines id quod volunt credunt. (Men generally believe what they want to.)
 Audere est Facere (To do is to dare)
qui se vincit (He conquers who, conquers himself.)
Non ducor, duco (I am not led, I lead.)
Aut cum scuto aut in scuto (Either with shield or on shield.)
Semper paratus (Always prepared)
Acta non verba (Actions, not words.)
Animis opibusque parati. (Prepared in minds and resources (ready for anything).
Compos sui (Master of himself.)
Lupus pilum mutat, non mentem (The wolf changes his coat, not his disposition.)
Nosce te ipsum (Know thyself.)
Aut neca aut necare (Either kill or be killed)
Ductus exemplo (Leadership by example)
Humilitas occidit superbiam (Humility conquers pride)
Praesis ut prosis ne ut imperes (Lead in order to serve, not in order to rule)
Si vis pacem, para bellum (If you want peace, prepare for war)
Vivere est vincere (To live is to conquer)
Vivere militare est (To live is to fight)
tuas responsabilitates (Take charge)
amissus pugna sed autere bellum (I lost the battle but I won the war)
cedere (Yield to no one)
Veritatis simplex oratio est. (The language of truth is simple.)
Acta deos numquam mortalia fallunt. (Mortal actions never deceive the gods.)
Carthago delenda est. (Carthage must be destroyed.)
Ex Nihilo Nihil Fit (From nothing comes nothing)
Auribus teneo lupum. (Holding a wolf by the ears.)
Castigat ridendo mores. (Laughing corrects morals.)
Astra inclinant, sed non obligant (The stars incline us, they do not bind us.)
Magna Servitus Est Magna Fortuna. (A great fortune is a great slavery.)
Quis Costodiet Ipsos Custodies? (Who will guard the guards?)
Absentem laedit cum ebrio qui litigat (To quarrel with a drunk is to wrong a man who is not even there.)
Abundant dulcibus vitiis (Nobody's perfect.)
Sic gorgiamus allos subjectatos nunc. (We gladly feast on those who would subdue us.)
Mea navis aëricumbens anguillis abundant. (My hovercraft is full of eels.)
Absit invidia (Let ill will be absent.)
Natura non constristatur. (Nature is not saddened.)
Mea navis aëricumbens anguillis abundant. (My hovercraft is full of eels.)
Caveat venditor, (Seller beware.)
Amici probantur rebus adversis (Friends are tested in adversity.)
Cave quid dicis, quando, et cui (Beware what you say, when, and to whom.)
Dum vivimus, vivamus (While we live, let us really live.)
Nemo dat quod non habet (No one gives what he does not have.)
Non omne quod nitet aurum est (Not everything that is shining is gold.)
Ubi bene, ibi patria (Where you feel good, there is your home.)
Ultra posse nemo obligatur (No one is obligated beyond what he is able to do.)
Vincit omnia veritas (Truth conquers all things.)
Memento vivere (Remember that you are alive)
Dum spiro spero (While I breathe, I hope)
sine amore vivere nequit (A man without love cannot live)
quae desinere potest, vera nunquam fuit (A friendship that can cease, was never a true friendship)
vinum, socius vetus et vetus aurum (Old wine, old friend and old gold)
amicitiam in adversa fortuna videbamus (We'll see true friendship in times of bad luck)
vide, tace, si vis vivere in pace (Use your ears and eyes, but hold your tongue, if you would live in peace.)
medico, patrono que intima pande (Conceal not the truth from thy physician and lawyer.)
nobile, cor immobile (A noble heart is an immovable heart.)
scelus indulgens per nubila sæcula virtus (In times of trouble leniency becomes crime.)
quod habes, et habes (Believe that you have it, and you do.)
munera, non munera (Gifts of enemies are no gifts.)
bonum fragile est (All that is fair must fade)
dubio, abstine (If you are unsure what it is best to do, do nothing at all.)
enim veritas, sed nihil pretiosius veritate (Truth is hidden, but nothing is more beautiful than the truth.)
non excusat (Ignorance is not an excuse)
cadere, cedere non potest (The brave may fall, but cannot yield.)
quantum valere potest (Take it for what is worth.)
imbutus tentabis grandia tutus (Once you have accomplished little things, you can attempt great things)
mutantur nos et mutamur in illis (All things change, and we change with them.)
causa fiunt (Everything happens for a reason.)
possibilitate ad actum (From possibility to actuality)
magis metuenda senectus (Old age should rather be feared than death)
lux vestra (Let your light shine)
Accipe quod tuum, alterique da suum. (Take what is yours, leave theirs to them)
est vitae risus (Life is easier with a smile)
Tempus edax rerum (Time is the devourer of things.)
Verba movent, exempla trahunt (Words move people, examples draw/compel them.)
Veritas vincit (Truth prevails.)
Vulpem pilum mutare, non mores. (A fox may change its hair, not its tricks.)
Silentium est aureum (Silence is golden)
Otium cum dignitate. (Rest with dignity.)